I don't think that, I really don't think there
should be any classes that size. I
could see it maybe having a very distinguished
lecture and then having a whole bunch of teaching
assistants take them into separate sections, but
that's not the way it happens there. They're in a
class of 500 and then they have stand-up contests.
And I don't think this is fair. So, more money needs
to go into faculty and less into building. I think
we spend a lot of money on building. And
I was very glad to see a couple of years ago, was it
last year, that somebody decided simply that the
money would go to the faculty, it would not go
anywhere else.
I want to see more of a place on teaching as
something to be evaluated and to make the most of
all of that support.
I want to see fewer committees and less committee
work because I think the people now, in any type of
any way that's involved in committee work, they
don't have time to do it.
I'd
like to see sabbaticals given more regularly and
without complications. And
I think it would be the case that somebody would
find a good job for X number of years and do the
sabbaticals and have to do it for it.
Things that would affect the whole. How
about the enrollment? Yeah, I was just going to
raise that issue. An admission requirement. I
think that they should cap the enrollment. They
already have that, haven't they? They have. They
say they have.
Raise the admission requirement.
Encourage rather than discourage out-of-state
enrollment for students. We're not going to have
dozens, well, dozens of courses. We're not going
to have thousands and thousands of people walking
in. We're not going to be able to do that. We'll
make it a little more open to people from
Pennsylvania and California. I think, too, that
we should work with junior college systems to
alleviate some of the follow-ups. And we are doing
some of that. I know that we work with Glenn to
alleviate the pressure on freshman teachers and
technical writing. And this is Bill. What is your
finding so far about the... What is your finding so
far about the... quality of instruction Glenn is
giving? Well,
on the basic level, it's pretty much the same.
They're all our graduate students who are
teaching here who are also teaching there. Okay.
Who then, in some cases, graduate from here with
their masters and go teach there full-time, often
because they're married to somebody here. I don't
think there's any problem with that. They have
worse students. They've got some awful students
over there. And sometimes the awful students will
get through the courses. Just anybody who does all
the work over there is going to get through.
Nobody's going to fail except people who don't,
who disappear at midterm. So we do get some people
from Glenn that have high grades that aren't
very good. But I don't think that they're getting
bad courses over there. I think they're getting
good courses. And, in fact, I think they're
getting essentially our courses.
I don't know. How do you feel? What is your thought
about A&M Street here, Wanda? We've
done it.
And really should reduce... It should go down to,
let's say, no more than 35. I
don't know how to do this. This is not... But it
would seem to be possible to do it. And I think a lot
of it is. I read a lot of that document, and I
thought, God. Some of it is very good, but a lot of it
is very vague, too. I mean, we really need to have
more instructors on all levels. And we need to
have, to be competitive with UT, we need to have a
lot more instructors. And that's in the report,
but it's not specifically... I'm
using the word instructor meaning anyone who
teaches...
But I don't think that we can do it with... For a
while we had many, many lectures. I don't think
this is a good idea because people who are really
good instructors don't generally want to be
lifetime... But we've had many, many people pass
through here, some of whom were terrible.
So I think we need more tenure-track people. And
those lectures we do have, we need to treat well,
and we need to make them senior lecturers so that
somebody, for instance, like Dorothy Van
Ryber... Have you spoken with her? No. Well,
she's a lifetime lecturer. And she will tell you
what this does.
So she's teaching
essential classes. And yet I think that there's a
kind of bitterness on the part of lifetime
lecturers because they're not... And she is a
senior lecturer, but we need to have better
conditions for our lecturers. All right. Any
female-related experiences, plus and minus,
that you want to share that we haven't already done
throughout all the years? Female-related? Yeah.
Okay. Any female faculty member, the pluses or the
minuses here? Well,
I can think of lots of little slights from the old
days, but nothing major.
What about a positive? Okay, the thing has turned.
The tide is going the positive way. Being a female,
I don't know. I do remember that when I was having
children, my students did not approve of this.
None of them said to me. This is a negative
experience. A core person said to me, I wouldn't
let my wife be pregnant and teach. Here I was about
eight months pregnant, and I was teaching.
And I don't remember what I said to him. I remember I
looked at him in astonishment, but I don't
remember. I don't think I had any snappy comeback.
I think I just said, well, that's lovely for you,
and went on to something else. But I encountered
that quite a bit. And it was kind of funny because
there were a bunch of pregnant teachers in the
English department at once. Pat Harris was in the
department then, and she was pregnant. And there
was a woman named Judy Finn who hasn't been around
for years and years, and she was there. And we kind
of took up the whole faculty room. But there was a
certain amount of you shouldn't be here at that
point that was not accepted. I can't think of any
really awful. I never encountered. And
nor can I think of anything astoundingly
wonderful that happened to me here because I was a
woman. I've just always been here, and I've always
taught. And I've become aware of the improvement
of attitudes towards women. And as the years go by,
there are more and more women. There's less and
less discrimination against them. But there are
still some Aggies who. If we could get all of the
people from your A&M experience, into one place,
to which ones and for what would you most want to
express your appreciation? Stanley Archer.
Because? Because he guided me all these years. He
was one of the first people to recognize me as a
faculty member, as opposed to another one of the
teaching assistants. Frank Pierce. Because
actually Frank was very protective during those
years. And he was one of the people that, for
instance, back then you didn't have any choice
about where and when you taught ordinarily. And
they could just as soon send you a mile away. But
Frank Pierce was always, like when I was having
children and so forth, he always made sure my
classes were relatively local and that they were
at good hours. And he also, he was the first person
to say, we all, I called all these people doctor
this and that. And Frank was the first person to
say, call me Frank. And I appreciated that.
Stanley
Frank. Bedford Clark, but just, he's my long-term
friend here. I was here when they hired him. I think
he was a great hire. He's always been around for
good advice. Who else?
Don't have to be in the department now. Anyone. Oh,
they don't have to be in the department. Anyone
associated with A&M that you. Okay, Maxine
Davenport, Manuel's first wife. And Manuel
himself.
Sylvia Grider, who also came in a long time ago and
who has not contributed. . And he
taught
everybody much good. But he was very kind to me and
very helpful. And he made all kinds of dreadful
mistakes with other people. And he was best known
for dragging
in people to see the department had he let their
class go by himself. He was not winning any friends
at all. I was careful not to do that when my class was
anywhere in the vicinity of parks. But he was very
good to me. And so I would remember him. I would go to
him for advice still. You know, when I think,
except for Sylvia, these are all men. Catherine
O'Keeffe is not here anymore. She's at Notre Dame.
Well,
go to her for advice.
I would want it for the establishment of the MFA
program. You know, a million dollars wouldn't go
far in that direction. If I couldn't do that, then I
wouldn't have a speaker series, another
instructor, whatever, in the area of doing life.
It's
been such a long time. I've been here since 1968.
I've been teaching here since 1969. I taught
elsewhere before and for one year during the time
period. But other than that, I know nothing. I
don't know how all the institutions work. And I've
certainly enjoyed teaching. I'm still in contact
with many students. Some of them even going back
today. I'm not in contact with them. But
other people from that time period. And now I'm
beginning to see I've had the children of my first
students. I figure when the grandchildren show
up, they're probably going to retire. So
I would say, in many ways, I do identify with Texas
A&M a lot. But I'm not a traditional student.
There's other elements of the state that I
identify with. Okay.
I'm just trying to think of things at the very
beginning.